If you're truly ambitious, burn your
resume.
>> You have all these amazing contrarian
perspectives on how to build amazing
products.
>> Your instincts are right 95% of the
time. Your ideas are wrong 75% of the
time. We've seen so many founders who
just stoically, heroically stick with a
losing idea.
>> How do you know if this is just the
wrong path you're following?
>> If you're asking whether or not your
product is an A, it's not [music] an A.
When you have lightning in a bottle,
when you have true signal, everything
works.
>> Most products are better versions of
things that existed before. Talk about
how you get over that hump of copying.
>> It's almost a moral arbitrage. You
became a founder, an entrepreneur
because you wanted to go be an
innovator, but you're trying to win the
hearts and minds of nurses in Indiana
like for Farmville. You're not trying to
win awards and respect from your peers.
Define your ambition in the eyes of your
consumer.
>> Building a consumer social app, very few
people have successfully done it and
built something durable.
>> We have beyond a latent demand for
social. It's lost the adrenaline. People
are proud to tell you they're not on
Instagram. [music] They're not missing
the party. If you want to reinvent
social, look for where the cocktail is.
We know it when we see a great cocktail
party. You feel you're like, "Oh, I'm so
glad I'm here." Today, we're all hanging
out on our Claude on our GPT, but
there's no cocktail [music] party. My
challenge to your listeners is figure
out how to make it rowdy.
Today my guest is Mark Pinkinis, founder
of Zingga, [music] who has arguably
created more successful consumer
products than anyone else in history,
over a dozen both within Zinga and
before Zinga. And over the past 5 years,
[music] he has been working on a book
that synthesizes all of the things that
he's learned about building successful
consumer products. It's called Life at
the Speed of Play. It's coming out in a
few weeks, and it is so good, and it's
also a really quick read. In a quote for
the book, Sam Alman, the co-founder of
OpenAI, said that today the only
bottleneck to building great products is
knowing what to create. Mark [music] is
an expert at this. And after reading
this book and having this conversation,
I could not agree more. In his book and
in this conversation, Mark shares a
really clever [music] and
counterintuitive framework that he's
developed for coming up with successful
product ideas. Why being less ambitious
is often the path to coming up with the
most ambitious ideas. why you need to
kill your hope before your hope kills
you. [music] Why your instincts are
usually right, but your ideas are
usually wrong. Also, what he's learned
about raising kids. He's got five.
[music]
And so, so, so much more. This episode
is for anybody who is building a product
or thinking about starting a company.
Before we get into it, don't forget to
check out lennisprod.com
for a free year of the hottest and most
well-crafted AI products in the world,
available exclusively to Lenny's
newsletter subscribers. With that, I
bring you Mark Pinkis.
>> Mark, thank you so much for being here
and welcome to the podcast.
>> I've been a [music] big listener.
>> Oh, wow.
>> And I'm excited to I'm excited to
finally be on. So,
>> I'm excited to finally have you on. You
just put out a book. It's coming out
around the same time that this podcast
is coming out. It's called Life at the
Speed of Play. There's uh so much here I
want to talk about. I want to start with
this framework that you developed uh
called proven better new and the
framework is basically designed to help
you come up with and refine your product
ideas and your startup ideas to
basically increase the odds that your
idea is a good idea and that it will
work. Uh it is such a clever idea, such
a simple idea with so much depth. Um I
want to spend a bunch of time on this.
Um, so first of all, just give us kind
of the the overview on this framework,
what it is, how people might use it in
coming up with ideas.
>> Sure. Well, this is a framework that we
got to early on at Zingga and it became
like a religion and the fundamental the
the core principles and engine behind
how we did product management at Zinga.
And it's was so fundamental to the book
that for three of the four years writing
the book we called it proven better new
but then I was like oh that's too dry a
name and I I love this concept of life
at the speed of play which we can talk
about but is the bigger gestalt to the
book. So, but proven better new is this
core
um philosophy that I've had around
products since I started Zingga, which
is that we have these the we have these
instincts like in our gut, these human
level instincts that are pretty much
always right. And then we put these
ideas on top of the instincts that are
usually wrong. And my rule of thumb is
your instincts are right 95% of the
time. Your ideas are wrong 75% or at
best right 25% of the time. The
framework of proven better new takes
that philosophy and says okay what do we
do with that? Okay let's let's isolate
your innovation zone. Let's isolate that
thing you have in your gut and let's
just test many many ideas around that
and let's fail for the right reason not
the wrong reason. It might be I mean at
Zingga we'd see new game launches. Sid
Meyers like the you know godfather of
game design who's the most revered game
designer. He came out, I think, a a
social civilization
on Facebook and we thought, "Oh god,
here comes like the ultimate game
designer." And 10 minutes after the game
came out, the Zinga PM's emailed around
their analysis and they said, "It's dead
on arrival because his Fatoule, his
first time user experience, was so many
clicks and so bad that no one was ever
going to see his great game design."
Even Sid Myers tripped over what were
understood by the most junior product
managers at Zingga was the best of breed
approach to onboarding a new user to the
first-time user experience on the
Facebook platform. But because he didn't
perfectly copy that, he didn't do the
proven right, his innovation never got
seen by anybody. This episode is brought
to you by our season's presenting
sponsor, Work OS. What do OpenAI,
Anthropic, Cursor, Versell, Replet,
Sierra, Clay, and hundreds of other
winning companies all have in common?
They are [music] all powered by work OS.
If you're building a product for the
enterprise, you've felt the pain of
integrating single signon, skim,
arbback, audit, logs, and other features
required by large companies. work OS
turns those deal blockers [music] into
drop-in APIs with a modern developer
platform built specifically for B2B SAS.
Literally every startup that I'm an
investor in that starts to expand up
market ends up working with Work OS. And
that's because they are the best.
Whether you are a seedstage startup
trying to land your first enterprise
customer or a unicorn expanding
globally, work OS is the fastest path to
becoming enterprise ready and unblocking
growth. It's essentially Stripe for
enterprise features. Visit works.com to
get started or just hit up their Slack
[music] where they have actual engineers
waiting to answer your questions. Workos
allows you to build faster with
delightful APIs, comprehensive docs, and
a smooth developer experience. Go to
work os.com to make your app enterprise
ready today. And so the con the point of
proven better new is to say let's take
all the proven off the table. If you
want to build the AI Snapchat or the AI
camera, there's so many of those I see
now, AI cameras. Fine. Let's start with
what you're not innovating on. You're
the icon. Um the maybe just the way a
camera works. look for where that's the
best of breed proven, whether it's Apple
or Snapchat or Instagram, and copy those
legally and with hopefully some taste.
We can get into like great copies and
bad copies, but but be a master of the
proven first. Get your PhD in proven
first. And I like to say we we don't we
haven't earned the right to innovate on
the camera until we are the world's
leading PhD on the best mobile cameras
that already exist. And then better is
usually we can't find better. Better is
usually very small increments and
innovations. And better is something
that 10 out of 10 of your existing the
existing users of that product would say
[__] yeah. 10 out of 10 not you. What
you think is better is called new,
right? What we think is better is new.
We usually are too ambitious on the new
and and so better could be it's now
free. There's no download. there's
something that you can both
statistically show works, you know, is
better and every user would say yes to.
And and usually it's it's very small and
it's polish and it's it's things that
intense users, power users will notice
the most. And in our game, Words with
Friends, you know, it was Scrabble, but
if it was just Scrabble, why was it a
massive hit with 14 million DAUs and
Scrabble itself wasn't right? There must
have been something, you know, better
and novel about it. But it had such a
polish for mobile was the better and the
new. What's the novel new idea, the back
of the box idea that's going to get
people to download and try it? And in
the case of words with friends, it was
social. It was your friends are just is
attached to the Facebook graph and your
friends are just already there to play
with you, which was a new idea. You
know, even that which you'd think of
course I want, you might not get 10 out
of 10 people saying yes. And we have to
accept that that new idea is probably
going to fail. It's a reason to try it
for people, but it's probably going to
fail. And if we do proven better new
right, the product has much better odds
of succeeding in the market, not failing
for the wrong reasons. And if we start
with the premise that the new is
probably not right, and we've got four
other new ideas ready to test, then we
we just prosecute it in a different way.
And and we really it's I like to think
if you do proven better, new, right?
It's it's like a time machine because
what if I could go back to Mark, you
know, 2003
and four and say, "Dude, you don't even
realize how right you are." Like, one of
your instincts is going to be a $1.6
trillion company once, and you are a
year ahead of them, right? You're a year
ahead of a $ 1.6 trillion company.
That's, you know, I'm not going to tell
you which. I'm not going to totally
cheat, but I'm just going to tell you
there's something there's another answer
in this that you could pursue that would
be worth 1.6 trillion. Oh, by the way,
your Tribes idea that's Reddit that
becomes a whole company industry, you
know, listings.
So, there was a point in Tribe where I
knew my metrics weren't working. Our D30
retention was terrible. We were sinking
speedboat. And if I had had this
attitude of I'm going to try a lot more
ideas. I'm going to look around me like
if you're doing proven better, you're
also looking around you for what's what
are you finding heat that's proven in
the market that you can also go test and
you know I would have massively changed
my odds of success. Okay, there's so
much here. So just to summarize how I
think about this framework which is so
good like if you start to really think
through all the products that have
succeeded and how many of them actually
follow this whether they are conscious
or not it's wild so kind of the steps
that I hear is so proven better new
proven is make a list of the things that
are proven to be working already in the
market things people love about this
sort of space better is make something
that is not just better but that 10 out
of 10 people will say f yeah I would
switch at this is better and then add
something new that nobody's tried before
that adds a little wrinkle
and I think a little bit like you have a
bunch of examples in the book Slack and
threads there's also like if you think
about the iPhone and the iPod like you
don't think you don't think about them
that way but basically the iPod there
was a music player they made it better
and they added some new stuff and it
>> yeah in the world
>> I was there at the TED conference when
this team from MIT was demoing their
touchscreen and they did it on a gigant
gigantic whiteboard and Steve Jobs was
obsessed with it. They had a whiteboard
and they had a table with it and I
watched him and he spent the whole time
there with this team obsessing over
their their touch. I don't know if
that's the first time he saw it, but I
know he was obsessed with it. Like,
okay, there's his new idea is is a touch
screen. It's [snorts] only new idea. Um,
and I want to say proven gets so misused
and that what I've found over the years
with founders is that they start to use
proven better new to justify a wrong
idea and they're like, "Look, Mark, I'm
doing Proven. Proven is
this game that was popular in the 90s.
Proven is and they they pick something
that and it's to their own detriment.
They're they're not using proven. You we
have to be precise. We have to think at
the pixel level of this experience.
Proven is on this platform for this
audience for this experience. And you
can look to what's been proven before as
great sources of new ideas, but but it's
not if it's not on this platform, it's
you know, it doesn't count as proven.
And and yet the the masters at this
product craft do proven better new
whether they call it that or not and
they do it at such a a a beautiful level
that nobody even thinks no one realizes
what it's derivative of and and Slack
was a great example because I think
Slack might have just been proven and
better and no new and that's even better
if you can get a if you can have a
successful product and I don't want to
sound anti-inovation
but you know people don't like change.
So if you take a behavior they like but
you make it much more accessible or
something much more fun about it like in
the case of Slack um people love that
even more. There's this thread of uh of
copying that comes through this
framework that will turn a lot of people
off. uh talk about what you think people
are missing and how you get over that
hump of like this is actually the right
approach in most cases
>> in the Peter Teal sense it's almost a
moral arbitrage because there's
something in our gut as a product you
you became a founder an entrepreneur
because you wanted to go be an innovator
and so it can feel like a beatdown that
your path to innovation starts with
copying other people's work and we were
taught in school copying is cheating. So
there's there's a lot of good uh reasons
why we've built this kind of moral
resistance
to copying.
But but that also
makes that opportunity in some ways, you
know, more available for people who have
less ego involved. And I like to say,
and I said this to my product makers at
Zingga, if you're truly ambitious, burn
your resume. If you and if you define
your ambition in the eyes of your
consumer, not your peers, you're not
trying to win awards and respect from
your peers. You're trying to win the
hearts and minds of nurses in Indiana
like for Farmville.
You're going to define innovation
differently and you're you're not going
to worry about whether you're going to
take the best ideas wherever you can
find them if they are in service of
giving her
an experience that she loves more. And
so if you know so and if you if all you
did was copy, there's no reason for her
to choose your product, right? But if
you took something that she loves and
you make it one inch better, she might
love that more than if you showed her
something she's never seen before and
didn't wake up knowing that she wanted.
And so and and I think that the the art
of this is you do it in a way that she
doesn't even realize it because I think
consumer taste also resists just a copy.
I think that consu if movies, TV shows,
you know, books, if if they feel too
derivative and they're not adding
something important and new, um, then it
it could go against, you know, our
consumer taste. But the best product
makers, and I love referencing someone
like Craig Newark on Craigslist, who
took two years to add photos to
Craigslist listings. And I was like, and
he lived in my neighborhood, and he was
friends with my dog, Zingga, more than
he was friends with me. He was a little
awkward socially, and he connected more
with the dog. And I tried to be friends
with him through the dog. And so he
would sit and talk to me and he was
working on I was like, "What are you
working?" And I said, "I've been working
for two years on adding photos to
listings." I'm like, "What do you mean
two years?" He's like, "Well, I really
want to make sure that people like it
and that the photos come up in the right
ways. I don't know. I honestly don't
even understand what he did for two
years, but if you're driving across San
Francisco to buy someone's couch,
why wouldn't you want to? Why isn't that
better? In his mind, it was new." And
I'm like, that's a world-class product
maker because he what he gets is that
his there there's we feel this sense of
ownership of products that we rely on
every day. And we're angry when they
change. Even if they change for the
better, we're like angry because we go
through life faster because of pattern
recognition. And we don't want to think
about these things. And what if by
adding photos to his listings, he moved
where the text was? And what if you
rifle through listings and now the text
is below the fold, you know, and a
junior product maker might make the
whole thing a picture and not realize
that what people liked most was being
able to see the text real quick and they
were trying to compare prices on the
couch they already knew that I don't
know.
>> Yeah. I'm thinking like as you're
talking I'm just thinking what are all
the best products and are they all just
kind of uh one word are they copies and
evolutions of existing products or how
many are just completely brand new and
I'm looking around like the iPhone that
was you know there's phones before and
they kind of took the elements of what
was great made them awesome uh my Aala I
don't know water bottle like there was
water bottles that worked and then they
added things to make it better uh chrome
I don't know I'm just like looking
around like it's so interesting how once
you start to think about it through this
lens
Most products are better versions of
things that existed before. And then I'm
thinking about as a product team, what
you what do you often do? You go look at
the competitors, look at all their
flows, here's what they're doing, here's
what's working, look at all these great
ideas, and then you build on that. So I
think there's like it's easy to get
turned off to this idea of like the word
copy. But like as you think about it,
this is mostly how products end up
getting built anyway. Well, there's so
much on this that we could we could
literally spend the whole podcast on it,
which I'd be fine with, too, or do a
whole episode just on this because so
much comes up for me. On the one hand, I
think about Nikita, who I think you've
had on, and I I love his story on TBH.
It's a perfect example of he found
something proven in someone else's
product. I That was my first company,
Freeloader. What I found was in the
Netscape browser and in the Internet
Explorer browser, they had buried in
there a feature of offline browsing. And
my entire product was offline browsing,
but they had it as this buried power
user feature. And I saw the genius in
that for that moment because bandwidth
was so slow that I was like, "Oh, we can
make an entire product just around that
one feature." Nikita saw his perfect
product buried inside an Arabic only
version, right, of his product and he
said, "Oh my god, they they nailed it."
So I think the when we can see something
that is proven already in someone else's
product but they have you know the wrong
idea around it that's that's gold you
know that's that's one and then to your
question of is every product derivative
is every product from proven better my
answer is no and I and I talked about
this a little bit in in the book and in
my course. But the question is at the
outset for all of us, which path do you
want to be on? And I argue that if you
go down this path of just innovate,
start with a blank whiteboard. Don't
look at any other products that is kind
of roio getting to Angry Birds. They
made 45 games. Every single game was
totally different. not as far as I could
tell learning from the previous failures
or the market and their 45th shot on
goal was Angry Birds and it was a hit
and it was innovative but the odds
that's wildcat drilling and do you want
to have those odds or do you want to be
do what OMG Pop did which is very
similar story but opposite path which is
OMG Pop
created uh the hit game draw something
and Zingga bought them. They were the
number one game and app in the app store
for 60 days in, you know, 2012.
But OMG Pop was on their last dollar.
They had tried something totally
innovative. No one ever seen her tried
it before. It failed completely. And now
they were ruthlessly, desperately in
need of a hit. And now they did Proven
Better Newly.
They said, "We're going to take this
proven game and do everything about it
that in as perfect students of what is
already working and viral on mobile and
they perfectly copied our turn-based
system from Words with Friends and they
made a massive hit.
>> I uh I love this idea of moral
arbitrage. That's such a [laughter] way
thinking about this
>> Peter Tian, you know, um Very. Yeah. So,
there's there's so many fun threads that
kind of connect to all this. One is and
you have all these amazing contrarian
perspectives on how to build amazing
products. One is be less ambitious. Talk
about why that's a really good lens to
actually build more ambitious products.
>> I'm in the middle of relearning that
lesson myself right now. And I would say
there there's there's so many paradoxes
in this. And and one that I've had to
learn over and over again is is if if
we're if we're too ambitious and we're
at the outset and too ambitious and
visionary about the product we want to
build, then we will probably miss
product market fit because we won't
start at a small enough humble enough
place because it it's it might usually
that the starting point for these
products is embarrassingly
mall. So many
of these massive hit products or you
know franchises started with such humble
um you know non-ambitious places and you
know the Facebook was just an app to
check out
girls and guys you know at Harvard right
and the irony for me that I I've I've
found that my career has gone in these
waves and And maybe some of your other
founders have had this experience too
that I've started in a very humble
place of I just want to get to anything
any product market fit. Had bigger
success than I imagined I would have in
my first two companies freeloader and
support.com. They both started with very
very small humble premise and then
afterwards felt like now I can do
anything and I know Elon has is the
exception to the rule. Part of it is I
think he can raise magical unlimited
amounts of capital which helps but and
he does not start in humble places at
all. But for the rest of us mortals, I'd
say that
we tend to after success
be feel the need to do something bigger
the next time. That's human instinct and
we want to be more ambitious. And so
when I got to Tribe and I saw social
networking and LinkedIn was just
starting and I saw how big the
opportunity was, I tried to do
everything with tribe. It was really
ambitious and I didn't pick one use case
and there was multiple inside tribe that
worked. The tribes the the idea of these
urban tribes worked. People loved it.
But I was too ambitious and so we
failed. And then I was so humbled and I
was in this abyss we can talk about for
so long and I was so just desperate to
get out of that abyss that by the time I
got to Zingga I did something that was
embarrassingly small. I mean to be 41
multi-time successful founder that could
go do something important in the world.
And what did I do? I made a Facebook
app. Like a poker game. Not even a
Facebook app. I mean a poker game. It
was people thought I had no dignity. I
mean, people were like, "Mark, there's
so much you could do in the world." But
I
was I'd say my my ambition came down to
like a a th00and foot altitude, you
know, not 100,000 foot. And and that was
the key to that being successful. And
and I see this with it's just so hard. I
see it with so many product founders and
and it almost gives a new founder an
advantage over a multi-time successful
founder because we have too much rope to
hang ourselves. It's too easy to raise
money and recruit teams against a big
vision before we've gotten to product
market fit. But the world doesn't care
about your resume. You know, that's the
good news for everyone watching. Like
everyone has the same chance. And in a
lot of ways, if you're in a more humble
place, you have you have a better
opportunity. So I the paradox is the
more ambitious you are that the the more
humble you should be and the the smaller
place you should be willing to start.
>> One of your uh insights along these
lines is that this is your advantage as
a startup is to be less ambitious
because a Zuck needs to go really big
because the revenue is already so high.
anything they take on needs to be many
billion dollar business opportunity and
as a startup you don't need to do that
and and this is how you end up
discovering some of the biggest ideas in
the end.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Being willing to pursue
these little threads
when they're flaky when they're they're
not a business when they're so much
earlier and and so many of the
successful companies today you know
started there.
>> Yeah. Is there an example that comes to
mind when because Yeah. What's like an
what's a what's a company or two that
started very unambitious?
>> I love the story of Bolt.new
that really blew up last year. I loved
it so much I coldma mailed the founder
because I was just so impressed with
>> Yeah. And you know they they toiled in
obscurity on something that they were
into and then they open sourced it. I
think they were barely able to keep
going with commercial development and
then they had this realization one day
of wait a second if we take these uh web
stacks this virtual machine that we've
been making work on the web but we
actually add that to an AI coding
co-pilot we now have something that's
better than what anybody else has and
and I I think that was just a great
story that he they were passionate about
one thing and you know and they stuck
with it.
>> Yeah, Eric was on the podcast. We talked
about that.
>> Oh, he was so impressed. Um in a lot of
ways Slack also, you know, was humbled.
Stuart keeps trying to start game
companies and those turn into unexpected
bigger hit companies. Um we'll see what
he does next. now has probably so much
capital he could just keep doing a game
company this time.
>> But I think to your point like he might
try again to unhumbled go big.
>> Yeah. But each time, right? So he
started a a big
uh you know idea for like the mass
market MMO which I've also loved but
really difficult. And they were humbled
in that enough to say, "Okay, wait.
There's this little teeny thing that our
engineers use. Let's build a product
around that." And it takes it it it
really takes a a really attuned,
curious, humble founder to to call the
ball on that. I mean, it's I can't
imagine I mean, I I can imagine I guess
I've been there. how hard it is when
you've got investors and team and
everybody going in one direction and you
have to we have to express confidence as
founders whether or not we have actual
confidence inside we that's part of I
think the dissonance of this how do you
express confidence how do you stay in a
place of intellectual honesty how do we
stay authentic and transparent and not
rattle our team, you know, how do you
and I've I'm still learning. I had I had
people I heir on the side of
transparency and honesty and you know
being authentic to a fault and I burn
out people in that process and I I did
at Zingga and I have since because it
you know people will say the the
negative critique I'm working with me is
oh working for Mark is like third grade
soccer and every Monday he comes in
excited about a different idea and And
they're not wrong, but where I can get
better at this maybe is, you know, if if
we can if we can build a a culture with
our team that says, "Okay, we are
ambitious. We're so ambitious that we're
not going to hold on to a B+. Even if we
could get funding, even if it has some
traction, we we have a north star that
we are going not going to stop until we
find product market fit against our
north star. And this isn't it. And and
it's going to take courage on our part.
And hey, let's look around the room. Is
everyone ambitious enough to do this? or
do you want to peel off and go join
someone else who's already a rocket
ship, which I that's a fair career
choice for you to make. But but I think
that that's to me the real founder mode
is can you have the courage to
to to tell your team and your investors
that this isn't it?
>> That's uh that's exactly where I wanted
to go. uh which is this other piece of
advice you give which is kill hope
before hope kills you. Talk about just
what that is cuz uh so much of your
advice is kill your bad ideas quickly.
So just kind of talk about that and then
uh I'm really curious to know when you
kind of what it takes to realize an idea
is bad. When do you decide okay this is
B+ let's move on.
>> I don't know if I get credit for you
know making up that quote but I love it.
Kill hope before hope kills you. It's
there's a difference between
belief and hope. Hope is confidence
without basis.
Hope is just,
you know, it's it's a prayer, but it's
but it's it's not it's not founded in
anything that your your lived
experience. It's not founded in your
experience with your product, your
experience with people
experiencing your product and the data
and and and I think that too many
founders and teams keep going with the
hope that this next release is going to
do something magical. And I think that
the best product makers, I like to say
they're collecting winnings. They're not
making bets. They already know. You
know, if you talk to Brian Chesy about
his launches, he already knows that he
has a hit. He's not launching it to find
out if people like it. And I talk about
the difference between launching an MVP,
a minimum viable product, and a maximum
launchable product. Because if if we're
going off hope, we're getting to this
MVP. Minimum viable. that the viable is
the the word we got to kill along with
hope because viable is where hope comes
from, right? If it's viable, it might
make it, right? And there's a difference
between get in the market early, learn,
you're you're putting a product out that
you're going to learn from and you're
putting a product out that you're going
to launch, that you think, you believe,
not hope, is going to be a hit. And it's
really important to be crisp and to make
that distinction. And and AI is is a
dangerous tool today. It's so powerful
that it's dangerous. It's so powerful
that it means we can get to a viable
product in much less time and money than
it took maybe 3 months instead of three
years. And that's a dangerous drug
because it means that I what I thought
would happen where we be today is that
people would be using AI to build these
like incredible testing machines,
failure machines that are testing, I
like say more ideas in a week than your
industry tests in a year. How are you
testing a 100red ideas a day instead of
one in three months? I think AI is being
used more to build one idea in three
months than a hundred ideas, you know,
in a day. And what would it look like? I
like to say we should build it
completely wrong before we know it's the
right product. So build it wrong before
you know it's right. And if you could
build it right, great. But don't be
slowed down by that. Because if we start
off if we say, okay, what what can I
believe today? I believe this is the
wrong product. What are you going to do
differently because you believe it's the
wrong product? You are not going to
waste three months building the wrong
product. Oh, I'd rather waste a day or a
week building the wrong product. But the
point of what I'm building is to learn.
So, is it good enough to get signal and
to test my idea? And I think we can
usually
pull that apart and test those pieces in
the wrong way. It's so often it could be
an ad. I cannot believe how many times a
team hasn't even tested the ads for
their product before they go and put in
the market. It's an afterthought and it
was so often at Zinga it blew my mind. I
mean give one story from Zinga when we
were launching our first expansion pack
for Farmville which became a mass these
became massive business drivers for us.
Um it was I think it was Farmville
um English countryside or something. The
team came to me and they said, "Okay, we
have a $10 million ad budget and we're
going to start running ads before the
launch." I'm like, "Wait, you have
2530 million people a day using your
product, but you're going to put ads
somewhere else for coming soon. You have
these people engaged
What if you just put something on the
game board? And and what if you don't
just start your product marketing,
you're still doing product testing to
see what gets the most heat. What if you
start putting different art forms of
your English countryside
locked on the game board and you just
see how many clicks you get and you just
start testing the look, the feel, the
marketing message. And at the same time,
when people click on it, it says coming
soon. Click here to be a a preuser. You
know, click here to get access two weeks
before anybody else. And it turned out
everybody clicked on it, right? Because
it's a change on your game board. And it
both gave us direction on what was the
right marketing and the right variant of
the product. But the unintended
consequences was we started selling keys
to people for you and a friend and we
ended up selling $19 million worth of
keys to get early access to, you know,
the new expansion pack. And so we took
something that was going to be
afterthought advertising, try to drum up
interest in this product and turn it
into something that gave us signal and
direction on the product and revenues.
And and so often, you know, you you can
have, you know, this is an existing
product, but you can turn something you
could turn something that was going to
be marketing into a kind of scarcity
and, you know, heat driving feature,
something that could drive revenues or
or something else that matters. So the
way we should be using AI is as a
testing machine, a failure machine, and
a way to vibe code, cloud code, but but
build build the, you know, the the
lowest possible cycled version of your
product that you can get signal back on.
>> Awesome. I want to ask about something
that I think might be on people's minds
as they hear you talk. For a lot of
product builders, when they think
Zingga, they're not like this is the
product I want to build, you know, and
there's a spectrum of of products you
guys have built. There's like uh
farmville and city and all these things
that I think pe turn some people off.
Then there's like poker, words with
friends, mafia wars that I think people
are like, "Oh, that's amazing. I love
that." Can you just speak to that?
>> Sure. I I think if I'm unpacking that
when you say that that the products turn
people off, it's it's funny you say that
because Farmville and Cityville were our
biggest hits in terms of installs,
engagement, retention, revenues. Um, now
Words with Friends and Poker were more
enduring because they made the
transition to mobile and the other games
didn't. is a whole other story. But but
I think the part you're getting to is
that Zingga was in a lot of ways a
victim of its own success that it was
our games were so viral and took over
the feeds on Facebook so much that the
your friend who was playing it started
to bug you as a person not playing it.
And and that's that's fair. But what I
would say, I think what's misunderstood
about Zingga from the beginning and why
we succeeded and we created uh eight
massive hits out of 10 mass large game
launches. We had a very high hit rate.
It wasn't that we were good at virality.
It was that we we were focused on two
things that I think we did better than
anybody else. And we had lots of
competitors, lots and copying and we
still managed to keep winning. And so it
couldn't be that we were just spammier
or better at virality. First, we had
this core mission and focus around
connecting the world through games. and
being Gordon and I kept coming back to
this idea that I love and I and I want
your founders, product makers watching
this to to join me in thinking about
which is how can we add more
dimensionality.
I love this idea of it's it's what I
call a bold beat. It's it's how do I
take this thing that's kind of gotten
boring and wrote poker or whatever. How
do I add a whole new dimension to it?
And by adding social, by adding real
identities, by giving you this, you're
doing social networking, you're in this
cocktail party, and now we're giving you
a way to actually meet new people or
improve your relationships in a game.
Well, the reason why people, so many,
especially middle-aged women, love
Farmville and these games was because
they they had this kind of hobby, but
they weren't doing it alone. and they
were doing it with their good friends,
making new friends. And in the game, our
our most successful features were co-op
play. There there were things that let
you
do gifting and do things of, you know,
value to your for your friends. And so
we called the games invest, express, and
connect. You could do something that was
you were being seen as creative. I like
to say people don't want to be creative,
they want to feel creative. So we were
letting you feel creative, look creative
to people. It's what midjourney does for
me today. And then we were letting you
so so you were expressing yourself and
then you were connecting with people
around it. So that was the first thing
and then at if you think at a mechanical
metric level our core metric was
retention not virality. We grew. We
outlasted everybody because we had the
best retention. I think we were the only
consumer company in the world that
tracked day 365 retention. I don't think
anyone tracks it today. I talk about in
the book. I think it's a gift to your
founders. I believe that the most
valuable companies in the world, well,
statistically this is true. They have
the highest day 365 retention. You know,
can you build against day 365 retention?
Yes.
you we can't wait till day 365. We can
find early indicators
of a positive day 365 and a negative day
365 retention. If you have low D1, low
D30, you will probably not have, you
know, high day 365. So those track, you
know, those are correlated. But you can
have the opposite. You can have very
high day 30 and a zero day 365, which is
most products. And if you don't think
about why someone would use this in a
year, if you don't have that mentality,
it turns out when someone tries our
product, they think that way too. They
kind of think, is this worth investing
in? Whether it's a game or a camera,
it's am I going to use this in a year?
Should I tell my friends about this or,
you know, is this should I bother
investing? Should I bother giving it
information about me or whatever? And I
think there's a mentality to that. And I
like to say viral-based companies, and
there's been many, you know, be real,
there's, right, we've seen these,
they're sinking speedboats. They're
trying to drive faster than they're
sinking, right? They're trying to get
more people in. You can either go
faster, bail water out faster, you know,
which is try to get people back, or plug
the hole in the boat. and you know or
build a better boat that doesn't have a
hole. But but yeah, so we we were
tracking both in our games in our
network what what was the retention and
we were we were really constantly
thinking about you know about that and
and I think the two things to take away
from
Zinga success in my opinion that I hold
is is to have a strong innovation vision
that translates to what your teams are
doing every week that and and we even
built a metric that's still not used by
anyone. This is an Easter egg if anyone
if this doesn't get cut and anyone's
still listening. We built a metric
called ASN and it stood for what what we
measured what was your active social
network. So we looked at how many round
trips you had with a friend or another
player. Meaning you took a turn and they
took a turn back. You gifted them and
they gifted you back. And we found that
if you went from zero ASN to one, there
was an 80% chance we saw you again in
the next month. And if we got you to a
four, there was an 80% chance we'd see
you 22 out of the next 30 days. And so
we could actually, you know, build and
innovate against that metric. And and it
made sense, right? Because if you saw
positive feedback loops, it's like
someone likes your photos, comments, you
know that that's probably the biggest
dopamine hit we get. I am so excited to
tell you about this season's supporting
sponsor, Vanta. Vanta helps over 15,000
companies like Cursor, Ramp, Dualingo,
Snowflake, and Atlassian earn and prove
trust with their customers. Teams are
building and shipping products faster
than ever thanks to AI. But as a result,
the amount of risk being introduced into
your product and your business is higher
than it's ever been. Every security
leader that I talk to is feeling the
increasing weight of protecting their
organization, their business, and not to
mention their customer data. Because
things are moving so fast, they are
constantly reacting, [music] having to
guess at priorities, and having to make
do with outdated solutions. Vanta
automates compliance and risk management
with over 35 security and privacy
frameworks including SOCK 2, ISO 27,0001
and HIPPA. This helps companies get
compliant fast and stay compliant. More
than ever before, Trust has the power to
make or break your business. Learn more
at vanta.com/lenny.
And as a listener of this podcast, you
get $1,000 off Vanta. That's
vanta.com/lenny.
Let's talk about building a consumer
social app. Very hard. Very few people
have successfully done it and built
something durable. Uh we talk about this
on the podcast a bunch. It's like
nothing works in consumer. Like it works
for a little bit and then dies. And
you've you maybe built more social
consumer products than anyone. Like
there's like a dozen that have worked.
Uh AI obviously changes the game in in
theory. What do you think needs to be
true for someone for something to work
again in today's world?
>> It's probably equally surprising to you
how little we're seeing in social and
and and consumer in general. It seems
like people have kind of given up on the
idea that that a social app could take
off or be viral. And I see them every so
often. and they've given up for good
reason because nothing's proven and
nothing's working. So I I like to think
first is there latent demand? So if if
just because a category doesn't exist
today, it doesn't mean that we don't
want it as consumers. In fact, the best
opportunities are usually the opposite.
And in 2007 when I started Zingga, video
gaming was a $23 billion business. But I
had stopped playing games. I didn't know
anyone who played games. It was like not
even a top 10 activity on the web. And I
thought there's a latent demand. I love
games. I love playing my family, but I
can't get people to play games with me.
And it's too much investment. It's too
hard. It It was crawling across broken
glass to get someone to play a game with
you. Literally, I I got my nephews who
are intense gamers to play Rise of
Nations with me and we set up two
machines for them and two for me and we
had FaceTime going on a machine and then
the game and we were on a game server
and we did that one time and I was like
that is a lot of effort and it was fun
but we did it once and I said my premise
was okay.
I believe this could be and should be a
mass market activity. I believe adults
want to give themselves permission to
play, but I got to make it so
accessible,
so cheap in terms of what it asks for
them. Free. Not just free even, which it
wasn't. It was $60 to go buy a game. So,
I made it free and I said, I'm going to
make it a game you already know. Three
clicks and you're in. And I'm going to
ask
five to 15 minutes of you, you know, to
to do this and and you're going to trip
over it. It's a breadcrumb somewhere.
You're not going to, like I say, we
don't go to the comic book store, but if
the comics were in the newspaper, we'd
read them. So, I believed there was a
latent demand. And in fact, today, you
know, gaming is a $280 billion industry.
And I actually think there's latent
demand. Again, I don't play games. No
one I know plays games other than my
nieces and nephews. And yet it's this
big a business. So I actually think
there's another massive growth waiting
in games because they're this big and
it's this boring and adults aren't doing
it or they must be some it's very big
but none I know. So so okay so social um
and consumer
I believe that we have beyond a latent
demand for social we are being social
right online. We are on Snapchat and
Instagram and and Tik Tok,
but I believe it's it's lost the
adrenaline. I think a lot about
adrenaline. Like, is there a heat in it?
Like, are you excited to go get on
Instagram or or do you feel a little bit
like you're eating potato chips? Like,
are these positive calories or negative
calories um or empty calories in the
middle? And I think one interesting
thing I we looked at NPS, net promoter
scores, and we saw that when people quit
Facebook and quit Instagram, they went
from a plus 35 to a negative 35. There's
people have a feeling like they just
quit smoking. People are proud to tell
you they're not on Instagram, right?
They're not missing the party. They're
like, "Whoa, I got off that." So, I
think so. So I think all that to say I
think it's the biggest unexplored
opportunity there is on the internet. I
mean I think I feel very confident that
someone is going to reinvent this social
experience for the agentic AI age.
They're but how are they going to do it?
You know, I would guess that they're
going to give us productivity again.
That they're going part of what we got.
People forget Facebook gave us massive
social productivity. We were able to
stay in the loop with 300 or a thousand
friends. LinkedIn gave us massive
productivity. They still do, but they
started to move away from that
productivity into a realm of
wasting time because they wanted to
engage more and have more ads and less
LinkedIn, but they might have ads now,
but but definitely, you know, Instagram
had Tik Tok envy. So, you know, they
started doing that. And so I think there
is
a new step function of productivity that
we could be getting in that experience
that our agents are letting us stay even
more in the loop with the people we care
about or you know but not wasting our
time as much. So and I'll also say this
there's a side of this I call this
social thing the cocktail party. Okay,
that's that's the big uh instinct vein
for me. And I think about that cocktail
party and I think where is that
happening or where does it want to
happen and how how do we add things to
the [__] We'd love to host the cocktail
party and if we're not, we'd love to be
at it. We know it when we see a great
cocktail party. You know it. You feel
it. You're like, "Oh, I'm so glad I'm
here." And it's moves from like
obligatory. I'm at this party, it's the
birthday party to almost like greed,
like I love this party, I'm love the
people I'm meeting. And what do you get
at a great cocktail party? You often get
great leads. And so that cocktail party
that for me it started with Napster when
all of a sudden all of us were connected
to each other and the great lead was a
music file. But then Fster, Facebook,
LinkedIn, what we were getting was
better lead generation. That was better
productivity for our time. Before that,
we would go to Google for a lead or
Craigslist. And it was a lot of noise to
signal. And now we're like, "Oh my god,
I could get on Fster and find a date."
And it's actually a good lead. I had a
good date on Fster. Um so what I would
say to people is like look if you want
to reinvent social look for where the
cocktail is or you could host and then
think about how is lead generation
happening. It might sound weird when I
say lead genen, but what is LinkedIn?
LinkedIn start with lead genen. All the
productivity, the value started in the a
utility in being in this cocktail party
today. And and by the way, with Zingga,
I said, I'm going to go to the cocktail
party. Everyone's hanging out on social
networks. I'm going to drop games in the
middle and give them a new dimension to
network in the games because they want
to be on Facebook. I want to give them
more to do. Today, we're all hanging out
on our Claude, on our GPT, but there's
no cocktail party. So, my my Easter egg
to people is it is it's a it's a quiet,
lonely cocktail party like the web was
before social networking. And my
challenge to your listeners is figure
out how to make it rowdy. figure out how
to make that cocktail party social and
socially productive and you will
probably, you know, find gold there. I
want to come back to your thread on
your your question was how do you how do
you know when an idea is a B+, right?
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. I love the question on well, how
do you know if it's a B+? And what I
would say to you is
how do you know if you're with the right
person? Like you're dating. What was
your experience dating? And my
experience
has been that when I'm with the right
person, I know it. I'm not asking, is
this the right person? I'm like [__]
yeah. I I love this person. This is my
person. And that's the best feeling
ever. And I hope everyone can experience
that. When you're with the A minus
person, you're with the B+.
You're asking, could this be the one?
You're like, you're and you know, Osho
said if you're torn between two paths,
they're both wrong. You know, you have
feet in two canoes. If you're asking
whether or not your product is an A,
it's not an A. And you're you're full of
hope. You hope it's an A. It doesn't
mean you might not have the chance to
turn that into an A, but the first point
of intellectual honesty is to say, okay,
it's not. And then, well, how do you
know how are you getting validation that
it's not? You don't have the validation
that it is. When you have lightning in a
bottle, when you have true signal,
everything works. It's anecdotally, you
love your product. You're addicted to
it. You show it to friends and they love
it. your metrics show that it works. I
mean, did we have to ask if GPT was it?
Did we say, "Oh, is GPT it? I'm not
sure." You know, we're like, "No, I'm
[__] living on that and it's making
me dream of new things to do." Right?
So, I'd say the the the hard part about
this is, you know, what do you what do
you do with a B+? First, can we be
intellectually honest that it is a B+?
And then what do we do with a B+? Do we
just kill it and start all over again?
Do we use it to learn? The power is
knowing it's a B+. That that's the first
point is okay, this is not it. Now, what
do I do with that? Is it a way to learn?
Did do I can I do I see examples that
are near this that are it? Can I find
anything proven or near proven when when
we realize it's not it? We we look for
more things to do and and it's such a
hard lesson. Two weeks ago, I pulled the
plug on my Earth project for like the
fourth time. Okay, I've been building my
version of the metaverse for 20 years.
It's what led me to Zingga. I call the
metaverse that I want life at the speed
of play. We're getting closer and closer
to that anyway with AI. And by the way,
I define the metaverse, I give Reed
Hoffman credit for this definition, as
blurring the lines between the virtual
and the real. And that is where our
lives are going anyway. So we're getting
more and more metaversian. It's not
being in this other escape to immersive
world. It's it's that the virtual and
the real completely blur together. And
but I kept coming at it from the game
side and I went native, not in the good
way. You know, I got so into wanting to
prove I could build this experience that
I was building this game engine, web
browserbased game engine. And I was not
getting a product market fit. I was
being too ambitious. I was not going for
a small small idea. I was going for a
really big idea. And it was really hard
and I pulled the plug on it after four
years in and $25 million in just this
one version of it. And in the last two
weeks since then, I've been more
inspired around ideas than I have been
in four years. So there is power in
pulling the plug on a B+ and even more,
you know, on a D. There's a whole uh
discussion I want to have about the
abyss, which you talk a lot about in the
book of how that's such a source of good
ideas. But I want to touch on
distribution just as we're on this
thread. Something that's come up a lot
on this podcast is just how with AI
making it so easy to build stuff, one of
the biggest challenges becomes
distribution. Always been a challenge,
always been hard, harder than ever
because there's so much happening in the
market constantly. There's so much
trying to get your attention. All the
channels are full paid and SEO. What's
your just like advice to founders? What
do you think needs to be true for a com
for a startup to break out because it's
so hard now?
>> Let's start with talking about consumer
distribution which
>> I understand better.
>> Yes.
>> Um
>> there there's a one question we got to
back up and really explore which is is
AI a new platform and I would argue that
it is not yet a new platform. It is an
important technology.
We have a new kind of portal to that in
GPT or whatever chat we use AI chat. But
it's not in my mind a platform. A
platform in the traditional sense of it
was a hardware platform. Well, it's
definitely not a hardware platform at
the consumer side yet. People are
trying to explore that, but it is not
yet. And then it became at least a an
interface platform whether it was a
Windows interface or a browser interface
or a social network that opened up. And
and in the case of mobile, it was both
hardware and an interface.
We we're not at that point yet. I
believe we will get there. I don't know
how. I have ideas, but we're not there
yet. And it's important to acknowledge
that and say we're still in the mobile
and web era. We still use a browser. Uh
and even though we're in this chat app,
it is not a platform for other apps and
experiences and developers. It could be.
I hope it becomes one, but it's not yet.
And that we're kind of like halfway to a
platform. I we are in a point of
discovery. New technologies that break
through at the consumer level unlock
discovery. That's really important.
Discovery means we're when we first got
our phones, we were installing new apps
all the time. Now we don't ever install
new apps. You know, the average app
installs per user per month is zero. So,
it's really important to think about
that that not only are we not in
discovery, but even when we are, we
don't it doesn't stick. You know, there
were something like 40,000 new games
launched last year in the app store and
zero, you know, became top 10 hits and
zero even sustained top 25 or 50. So,
your odds are bad. Okay. So it's not
it's it's not an ideal, you know, moment
to be, you know, you can't launch
consumer right now with with high
confidence. And that's just something
that we have to acknowledge. And it
makes consumer and consumer categories
like social and games almost not
investable. They're still getting
investment, but it's very
hard. uh it's much easier, you know, to
be proumer or enterprise now. Um but for
good reason because we're seeing those
companies scale revenue ARRs um very
quickly. So I do think it's a great time
to be
working on consumer ideas and you asked
about distribution.
Distribution is just so crucial and core
to any consumer any business idea, but
any consumer idea. And it it can't be an
afterthought. It's not I'm going to
build the best mousetrap and they're
going to come. Distribution has to be
part of your product and part of baked
into the strategy deeply and and proven
from the beginning. And if you're just
building this product and hoping they
will come, hoping it'll spread virally
or word of mouth, you know, that's hope
strategy, you know, not a belief
strategy. And it doesn't mean you
shouldn't keep experimenting. And now is
a great time to experiment. And in fact,
it'll be a hundred times more expensive
to try to get the same things in the
market in a year because it'll there'll
be 100 times more noise. And once there
is distribution, there'll be a flood of
competition. But but when distribution
is this broken, it is even more core to
your product and your strategy. And I I
think we're seeing many more successful
companies that find a proumer approach
that find that go after their power
users, their whales, the people who care
enough to find it, care enough to spend
money on it upfront to sustain a
business, you know, long before we can
get out to consumer. And there there is
a great idea that um I got to that Gary
Tan had that I'll repeat here because I
loved it so much this week that if we
get in the mindset of basically uh
intelligence on tap free tokens and if
we think that the the amount of tokens
that we're buying today you know that
will basically be free in a year or two
that that that the token, you know,
supply is going to go up so much. Our
demand will too, but if today we start
building re-imagining consumer services
based on free tokens,
I think that's such an interesting
innovation zone and it could sound like
a dot business plan. And I remember
ordering pig ears for my dog Zingga and
and wanting to send thank you notes to
the VCs because they were cheaper than
at Petco, right? That's not a good
business plan. So, you know, giving away
tokens at a loss isn't a good business
plan, but it might be in a phenomenal
business because what the dot thing had
wrong was the price of pig ears wasn't
going to come down or delivery wasn't
going to come down, but the price of
tokens will. And so I think that's
another kind of Easter egg of an insight
that I'm intrigued by and I think I
think founders are going to do something
really interesting with it that because
games don't work premium games and
premium apps that have to go and hit the
AI that even if you wanted to spend on
it you're hitting token limits right so
getting around that today might unlock
really interesting
innovation. And I also just another
Easter egg thought on the social
cocktail party. I love the idea of the
agent
being in the middle and brokering our
social relationships. And getting back
to that lead genen, dating, jobs, you
know, general listings, but I love the
idea that the agent has our context and
knows my context and your context. And
we have this membrane. I call it the
social membrane. This intelligent
membrane of trust. And it it gets
smarter and smarter at knowing when to
change dynamically change that trust or
change that attention level that it's
going to take from us like a great chief
of staff. And and it could share less
information with both of us than it
knows. It could be you're in Marin and
I'm like, "Lenny, let's hang out. You're
like, "Mark, I'd love that." So, okay,
let's have our social secretaries work
on that. There's going to be an
asymmetry in your interest and my
interest in any given weekend and
hanging out. And how do we broker that
without hurting, you know, one of our
feelings or, you know, going into
there's some really interesting spaces
that the that the AI and the agent can
broker between us in in ways that start
to give us both productivity. They they
find ways for us to get together without
going without getting in a bad place of,
you know, you see me on your calendar
for Saturday and you want to be with
your kids.
>> I love all these ideas you're sharing.
Like what I'm hearing there, there's
this always this idea of why can't we
just here's my calendar, here's your
calendar, let's just find time. And like
the issue there is you don't want to
ever feel like you don't want to look
like you're you got nothing going on and
you're like the most boring person. Like
you don't want the other person to know.
>> It's totally open available to you.
>> Yeah. [laughter] Exactly.
Um,
>> and and even worse, you don't want it to
to you don't want it to
>> schedule you for a meeting, you know,
that was not
>> Yeah, that's right. Just to close the
loop on the distribution part, what I'm
hearing is like we might be on the verge
of a new distribution platform, a way to
get out and for people to discover you.
Uh, it's not there yet.
>> I I'm somewhere between belief and hope
in this because I don't have enough
evidence to believe it and I'm it's a
little more likely to me than just hope.
I think right now there's a obvious race
and competition around coding between
the major LLMs. I think they're going to
get back to consumer and proumer and
developers hearts and minds. And I think
they are interested in developers hopes
and minds, but first they're competing
on this coding front. But I think where
we will get to in one way or another is
that
there there will be some kind of
there will be some kind of consumerf
facing platform for
for AI apps and agents.
I I can see so many I can see so many
consumerf facing agentic services that
make so much sense to me that I think
consumers will want but they're not
going to get it because it's if it's
just buried in I doubt they're going to
get it buried in the mobile app store
and I think it's going to be in OpenAI's
interest claude gro um to to see these
these apps, consumerf facing agentic
service apps happen and see them be
successful with their LLM baked in. And
the more it's uniquely instantiated to
OpenAI, the more it drives their
consumer value proposition. One example
that is my my number one is my Easter
egg on this is I think there should be
an agentic travel agent. So, perfect
example to me of a place where I think
there is latent demand and the only
reason we don't have it is because it
doesn't make economic sense to offer it
to us because we won't pay enough for it
is a travel agent. I believe if I
offered you a free 247 travel agent that
was always there for you, knows your
travel context, knows you, and will
actually book, not just book travel, but
I think the most valuable part is when
you're in the middle of a travel a trip,
be ready to rebook your flight and be on
top of, you know, your travel logistics
as they're happening. and often failing.
And I think that's valuable to all of
us, but not available to all of us
because travel agents couldn't make a
living. They they weren't getting enough
commissions and we weren't ready to pay
enough. So, they we're we're the
internet has grown through us getting a
better deal. But I think the the next
area of growth probably will include
deals, but I think it's going to be
about getting amazing services and and
that's my prime example. But if someone
built the best travel agent today, you
know, maybe we'd find out about it, but
it's it's a it's a tough road. But if if
it was specifically baked into open AI
or claude and was a gave me a a a real
clear reason that I'm getting value from
my GPT beyond, you know, there's there's
a lot of generic value I get through AI
chat today that I'm having more and more
trouble differentiating and it's just I
don't even know anymore if I'm asking a
question to Claude or or to GPT and so
so they at some point and that's why
they they're differentiating themselves
right now on coding and there's real
value and they're that's an amazing
business but but they're not
differentiating themselves very much at
the consumer level.
>> Yeah. To me like the question is are
they just going to do it or why do they
need anyone to do it if they are
building this AGI they could just do all
the things. So I think it's going to be
interesting to see if they just want to
eat the entire market of everything or
they play nice with other startups.
>> Yeah, that that is going to be
interesting. And and look, we there's we
can see past examples with Microsoft,
you know, Microsoft was a brutal
monopoly. They were a brutal platform.
You know, they they ate everything
around them. And and then, you know,
with us, you know, we saw it on
Facebook, you know, they the two areas
that they just didn't care about going
into was music cuz it was really painful
with IP rights and games because they
didn't want to like hire artists. Uh,
but everything else they did absorb. I
want to go in a different direction and
touch on you have all these really
amazing nuggets of advice for scaling
company, managing people, hiring people,
working with people. I want to just kind
of touch on a bunch of these. Um, one is
this idea of making everybody a CEO at
your company. Talk about that lesson.
>> All my management principles I got to
through desperation. I don't like
managing people. I say every day you're
managing people is a day of work. And
it's a necessary evil for us as product
makers because we can't abdicate and
just have someone else be CEO because
all a sudden the priorities get messed
up and you know teams don't have to
listen to us and we're now feedback not
direction. So that's a failing path. So
we we have to be a CEO. But then the
question is how do we get to spend the
most time doing what we love and the
least time doing what we don't? that the
bigger principle to me that I started to
get to was that oh I'm like all of
management is just how do we get people
to do the right thing we're not when
we're not in the room. So I was like,
okay, if I give them a hill to take, and
if I make them a CEO, make them a real
CEO. I mean, they they have operating
control, degrees of freedom to take that
hill however they want, and they can
give me a plan, a budget, and then do
whatever they want within that. What I
found was I didn't have to manage them.
So they're not coming back to me with
questions. And certain kinds of people
really want to be a CEO. What I also
found was it was incredibly motivating
for people. It's motivating to me. You
know, I always say, uh, I'm a team
player as long as I'm running the team.
Um, so can I hire other people like
that? And and I I like to say I was a
frustrated expert witness when I worked
for other people. And those are the best
people to turn into a CEO. They're kind
of a little bit of a know-it-all. they
think they have the right answers and
they're we're gonna find out if they do
and so we let them actually be a CEO and
they have all this pent up demand to
actually go and prove that they were
right and and that's a beautiful thing.
So, so yeah, this I love this principle
of make everyone a CEO and we're kind of
going there in Silicon Valley with this
idea of get rid of middle management.
You know, Brian Armstrong was saying
everyone should be an individual
contributor. Everyone should be managing
a lot of other people. That's really
kind of to me the best CEO is like the
best player at the position and is doing
the thing they're great at and they're
not wasting their time on management.
>> You mentioned this idea of an expert
witness and you also have this uh nugget
of of advice of staying close to the
metal. I love this general advice. Talk
about what you mean there, why that's
important for someone in their career.
>> They go together. We start our careers,
you know, in our 20s very close to the
metal, meaning we are individual
contributors and we are working on
getting the primary data and building
the actual product. Usually we're in the
trenches and the people in the trenches
are usually closest to the data, closest
to probably the right answer, but
they're also usually furthest from
making the decision. And that's what I
call the expert witness syndrome because
you're called to the stand by the adults
and you plead for what you passionately
believe is the right answer and then
you're excused and then they make a
decision and then you have to deal with
the consequences and you know disagree
and commit. What if what if I'm
disagreeing because I'm [__] right
and now I'm committing to clean up your
mess because you're wrong. And that's
why many of us become founders cuz we
just are sick of being in that position.
You're also closer to the metal. And
when you go become a CEO, when you
become a founder, part of the the
paradox of it that that I believe we
have to be careful about is that we stay
close to the metal. And I believe the
best product CEOs are in the minutia of
the details. you know, all the stories
about Steve Jobs. I was so impressed
when I heard that he insisted on picking
out the carpeting in the conference
rooms, you know, and and I tried to have
that same mentality of micromanaging the
really small pixel level details that
matter. And I had a great conversation
with the founders of Discord and they
they came to this conclusion too that
they needed to actually be an inverted
pyramid. And they said, "We realized
that we outsource, we delegate the most
important product decisions, the UX to
our least experienced people, and
they're doing this every day." And we we
decided to turn that upside down and
say, "We as founders need to be kind of
the first and last mile for the
product." And we have to be the ones who
bless our our best use of our time is
making these minute decisions that
change the product user experience. And
so to me that's being close to the
metal. Brian Chesy believes in, you
know, in doing things in non-scalable
ways and doing it himself with the team
by hand. You know that there's so many
stories about Jeff Bezos and Zuck of the
thing that mattered most. they would go
and work, you know, two days a week
deeply with the team on it. And and it
makes sense. If you were the best
product maker in the company, we want
you on the field, you know, we we want
to put you on the ice. We don't want you
to spend your time talking to investors
and managing and scaling.
>> Yeah. Uh Elon famous for this too. You
have this uh line in the book along
these lines. Micromanagement is
beautiful. You should micromanage as
long as you can. I believe that and and
I I did that building zinga to a fault.
I mean, we we got to a point that I had
all the way to 50 employees, we had a
standup call that would go on for two
hours and I I had everyone's name in a
spreadsheet and I had what they were
supposed to do yesterday and what
they're going to do today and I go
through name by name and say, "Okay, did
you get that done? Can everyone else
verify they got that done? Okay, what
are you going to do today?" and I
completely micromanaged, but we were
much more effective. And then I I you
know I kept micromanaging things as as
I'm like if you can be in the room, be
in the room assuming that you are the
best player. So yeah, I I I think it's
less contrarian saying it now than it
was 20 years ago. But but when I was
building Zingo, we had to apologize for
things like micromanaging or
you know expecting
uh you know massive
results from our teams and and I think
I'm happy to see that that's becoming
kind of accepted as more it's closer to
best practices today I think. But
>> um but my point about like
that management is get people to do the
right thing when you're not in the room.
The first principle is be in the room if
you can be as much as you can be and
then only delegate when you get to the
point that you you can't possibly be in
all these rooms at the same time. And
then
all these management principles are just
different strategies to try to get
people to do the right thing when you're
not there. And I love these non-scalable
ideas that actually scale your scale
what you're trying to do as a product
maker in the right way. And one of the
ones I love is this idea of tech
assistance and and this idea of a
teaching hospital. How do you pass the
vampire blood of you to other people?
Like you have this burning
mission and passion around your product.
How do you spread that to other people
and have them spread in the
organization? The first thing is put
them in the room with you. Like so the
idea of this teaching hospital was okay
I'm just going to put as many people as
I can in the room while I'm doing these
product management meetings and have my
passion and ideas and approach you know
spread to all of them too and and that
worked. And then grab someone from the
ranks and make them your tech assistant.
have them just follow you around for six
months or 12 months and make make it the
mini me, the person who is you in your
20s who was the expert witness, a little
bit of a know-it-all.
um and and start having them follow you
around to pick up learn absorb
everything you do and give them projects
to test them and and then hopefully
you've created a mini me that you can
now put in at in a much bigger role
somewhere else and in fact Andy Jasse at
Amazon everyone on the sea staff used to
be someone who had been the tech
assistant to Bezos so it act that idea
actually scales and you kind of get it
for free.
>> I love this phrase of transferring your
vampire blood. Oh man. Um maybe one last
uh nugget from the book along these
lines is you have this line of just the
number one job of a CEO is to be right.
Talk about that.
>> Well, that's another one that I stole
from Bezos. Um but if if I got to pick
one if I get to pick one thing that you
do as CEO, I'm going to pick that you're
right. So even if you don't, you know,
even if you don't operate the ship or
the factory that well, I'd rather that
you picked the right product, the right
strategy
than you were phenomenal at execution or
inspiring people or managing because,
you know, being in the right body of
water matters more than the right boat.
And a a great boat in, you know, a dead
lake bed, you know, isn't going
anywhere. And so I I look for that in
people like are they right? Like that's
the best resume. I could see that you
were right about something and and I
look for that in the team and it's less
do I like your style or approach or
you your you know personality fit. I'm
like I'll take I'll take misfits who are
right. I'm like, I want I want those
really smart expert witnesses who are
intellectually honest and and you know,
the more people you have around you who
are right, you know, that's they're
they're putting balls in the net.
>> I want to maybe end with a question
about your kids and parenting. I talked
to a bunch of people that know you well
in preparation for this conversation and
every single person commented on just
how wonderful a dad you are
>> and how much time you put into that part
of your life. And a question I've been
trying to ask folks that are parents and
great parents in this AI era. Uh and
there's a lot of stuff I want to ask
about, but let me start here is just
what's something that you are teaching
them or helping them to develop that you
think is going to be important to them
in this crazy world we're we're entering
of of AI? Thank you for asking about
this. I It's I think my greatest role
and job and and service to the world is
trying to grow good humans. So I really
really put a lot into it and take it
seriously and I get so much out of it. I
I like to say I'm growing my best
friends. Um
>> and so far it's true. So, so there's a
couple principles that have come in
philosophies that have uh been important
to me as a parent that I've just seen. I
do them naturally and I see that they
work over time. The the first one for me
is I have five kids there. Every one of
them is just such a different version of
a human. and I have a special needs son
uh who's fairly extreme special needs.
Um our new one-year-old baby uh has a
gene mutation and she actually may also
end up being very neurode divergent. Um
so you have this wide range and my my
15-year-old girls are they're twins and
they're completely divergent from each
other. This first principle that I've
found is meeting them where they are and
and and
it's with kids I find
we can kind of talk down to them. We
could talk to them as kids um and or we
can kind of treat them like adults and
neither of those are right. It's like we
got to like find engage with them at the
altitude that they're at but as human to
human and find the way to do that. And
then once we do that and meet them where
they are, I think we can bring them to
surprisingly sophisticated
places that may be way beyond what where
they're supposed to be, you know, in
that moment. like my twins, I started
playing with math with them when they
were really, really little. And then
during the pandemic, I taught daddy math
because I saw that their school was not
equipped to do online homeschooling. So,
I taught them and their friends daddy
math. And I just tried to teach them a
math brain. Like I and I didn't know
where they were supposed to be. They
were in fifth grade, but I just started
for them and their friends just trying
to teach them how to approach math in a
way that's fun and curious. And then I
found out I we found out later I taught
them all the way through eighth grade
math. Um, and I didn't know it and they
didn't know it and that was cool. And in
I'd say in the how does this apply in
the age of AI and where we are I feel
like we're at the end of this
hundredyear
cycle of mass produced education which
was get the most knowledge in get
everyone's averages up to the best place
we can educate 20 million graduates a
year or whatever number but it was
factory produced it was and it was for a
certain kind of work first factories
then knowledge workers
you know, knowledge working is going
away. It's changing, but we're still
teaching knowledge education. And I feel
badly about it with my kids. And what
I've tried to do with my older kids is
teach them to have critical thinking
more than and and I say, "I don't care
if you go to college," which is a little
hard for them because they're kind of
achievers and like I don't care if you
go to college. What I care about is that
you develop critical thinking and you
find a way to be useful to people in the
world. And my one daughter Carmen uh
she's also neurode divergent. She has
ADHD and dyslexia and she created she's
created a brand of sweatshirts called
Comfy Fancy. Um and she also has created
a a gathering a grouping a group for um
neurode diversion middle school kids
called neurosparkley
and and it's taking this thing which
should be a problem and a deficit and
it's making it a way that she can
connect and help a lot of other kids. So
I'm proud to see that. I I've also I
what I'm the the dissonance that I feel
in this moment as a parent is that my
kids are in this educational system that
is trying to prep them to get into a
good college and to be a knowledge
worker and I know that game is over and
I know so so what do I want my kids
doing? I I try to teach them
to when when an look at the deeper the
meta of what's going on. When an adult
is trying to convince you of something,
when a teacher has a point of view that
you don't agree with, try to understand
why. What's their agenda? Where are they
coming? What's their lived experience?
And how has that impacted it? So, I'm
trying to teach them to ask better
questions, not know more answers. And
and I think that's, you know, and and
and I'd say in terms of how that spills
into their online use and what I try to
promote and discourage, it's I try to
promote how can you be generative in
what you're doing and not consumptive.
So what can you do online or offline
that is generative? that is actually
putting something new out in the world
because that's how you're going to get
something back and not consuming, not
being a passive consumer of content and
experiences and and sometimes it works.
I see them doing that and then sometimes
it doesn't. But, you know, that's that's
how I'm trying to navigate this. I also
tried to make it till they were 16 with
no phones, no smartphones, and I got to
14. And I got them flip phones and they
had internships at Niantic working on
Pokemon Go. They built a first-time user
experience. It's really good with that.
They were they I think used, but they
had to get smartphones for that and they
still have them. And so so even you know
I tried to make it and I didn't.
>> Oh man, that's hilarious.
>> Oh, and and I also I'll tell you one
more thing. For my older girls, I keep a
running uh Google doc of life
philosophies
and anything I say to them as like a
quote I say over and over, I'm like,
"Okay, I'm going to actually like write
that up with stories and I keep it in
this document for them and who knows if
they'll use it, but they they do start
to repeat some of them, so I know they
read it." Um, you know, one is nothing's
personal. Don't don't ever take anything
personal. And if you assume nothing's
personal, you're probably right 19 out
of 20 times. And the 20th time, you
probably handled it right because of
that. So that's one, you know, and don't
be a victim. You know, the world doesn't
happen to you, it's happening around
you. And you know, you're we're defined
how we react to the world, not by the
events that happen to us. So, I'm trying
to, you know, give them these and, you
know, and and it's and I'm and they're
teenagers with the older two and, you
know, and I'm in it and learning and and
I've got two littles that, you know, a
one-year-old and a four-year-old who
sleep with me every night and
>> Oh, man,
you're busy. Uh, I feel like it's
clearly what your next book is going to
be is these life philosophies. I I feel
like these are useful for people for
human for adults I mean.
>> Yeah. I wanted to write a book on
parenting saying everything everything I
know about parenting I learned from my
dog Zingga because I had her before I
had kids and she was like a person and
you know I gave her clear boundaries and
freedom and love in between and you know
she uh she believed that she was a
person. So,
>> is there anything else you wanted to
share before we wrap up?
>> The thing that I've gotten that's
resonated most in writing in my book of
life for the last 30 years, it took me a
long, long time. It took me until I
started Zing at 41 to finally identify
and articulate my why. And I think for
all of us, it's so important to get
there. and we might do for a long time
before we actually can say the why. But
I figured out that mine was I talk about
in the book is I want to create an
internet treasure. Like you know when
people say Mark how do I know that
you're going to work hard on this next
thing or you know you're post economic
or you're a board rich guy or whatever.
I'm like well I haven't done my thing
yet. I like to like what is what does
our soul need to do before we die or at
least to be in integrity with it? What
do I need to be working on and know that
I gave everything I had against it? And
it's to build an internet treasure which
is a service we can't remember life
before or imagine life without. And I
believe as product makers that that's
the greatest ambition and the greatest
thing that we can offer the world. And
my friend Bing Gordon says, you know,
one day those treasures will be in the
Smithsonian. [snorts] And and I think
he's right. And you know, I think it is
the greatest opportunity that we have as
product makers in this era is to build
this digital skyscrapers
that the next generation can't believe
anyone ever lived without. And so that's
that's my ambition and why why I'm still
like rubbing sticks together and
>> and writing books.
>> Uh speaking of that, to help people
build their own internet treasure. Your
book is coming out very soon. I think
around the time this episode comes out.
Uh tell people where to find it. Uh
anything else you want to share about
the book?
>> It's right here.
>> Well, you have a copy. I just got a
copy.
>> Two copies somehow.
>> Two because you're important. Uh, we
hope you read it twice. Um, give it out
to a friend. So, uh, I would just say
that Life of the Speed of Play is my
it's I'm trying to share my my playbook
and philosophies
and I I'm hopeful that somebody uh will
steal from my ideas and and take it
further and and we're all kind of in a
conversation and I love this podcast and
and you hosting this cocktail party and
we're We're all trying to move the the
philosophies and the craft of product
making ahead and and we're we're all
learning as we go and and I hope that my
book uh can be something referenceable
and I hope it's easy and fun to read
because I have pain reading a lot of
books.
>> It is actually very easy to read. It's
like very not that long and it's very uh
bite-sized. So, great job with that.
>> Oh, good. Um, Mark, thank you so much
for being here. Thanks for sharing all
this wisdom with us.
>> Thanks. This is this is fun. This is
actually I've I've done some podcast
about the book and I didn't want to talk
about the content of the book on most of
the podcasts and on this one I did and
I'm trying to I'm trying to only go into
places, you know, that that I want to
talk about, you know, which I try to do
in the book, too. So,
>> there we go.
>> Thank you for inspiring me to want to
talk about product. My pleasure. Thanks,
Mark. Bye, everyone. Thank you so much
for listening. If you found this
valuable, you can subscribe to the show
on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or your
favorite podcast app. Also, please
consider giving us a rating or leaving a
review as that really helps other
listeners find the podcast. You can find
all past episodes or learn more about
the show at lennispodcast.com.
See you in the next episode.